# react-random-number-generator
This is an example implementation of a random number generator in React. It was created using *create-react-app* and reuses most of the code and styles from the generated project.

## Example Requirements
We're going to create a random number generator which behaves as follows:

1. Each random number will be an integer between -1000 and 1000.
1. The user will be able to generate a new random number by clicking on a button.
1. A random number should be available as soon as the application is started.

## Creating the App
In this project, we've reused the code generated by the *create-react-app* command line interface tool. This requires *Node.js* to be installed on your computer. If you don't have it, please install from the [Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/), then come back here to proceed. To create the react app, open a terminal and run:

```
npx create-react-app react-random-number-generator
```

If you'd like to use a different name, use that name as the argument instead of *react-random-number-generator*. Once the command is entered, it will take a moment for everything to be installed. Once that's done, we can open the code and make some changes.

## Generating a Random Number
We need to be able to generate a random integer between -1000 and 1000. To do this, we can use the *Math.random()* function with some additional logic. The *Math.random()* function creates a random number (not integer) between 0 and 1. To make this a random number between -1000 and 1000, we can multiply the result by *2000*, which brings it into the range of 0 to 2000, then subtract *1000* from that result, which brings it into the range of -1000 to 1000. Finally, we can use *Math.floor()*, *Math.ceil()*, or *Math.round()* to adjust the number so it becomes an integer. The full implementation will look something like:
```javascript
/**
 * Return a random number from  -1000 to 1000
 */
function newRandomNumber() {
    return Math.floor(Math.random() * 2000) - 1000;
}
```

## Working With the Component
For this example, we will directly reuse the component within *App.js* instead of creating a new component. We'll also reuse most of the styles generated in *App.css*. The *App.js* component is initially declared as a function, but for this example we'll refactor it into a class, then use methods and instance properties to handle the random number generation logic. At all times, we'll need to display a randomly generated number to the user. Therefore, we'll include a property in the component's **state** called *randNumVal*. In the component's constructor, we'll initialize that state to some random number using the function described above. We'll also create a new method which handles updating the component's state to a new random number. This will be called when the user clicks on the generate button. Lastly, we'll need to update the HTML in *render()* to display the number and update when the button is clicked. To summarize:

1. Refactor into a class.
1. Initialize the component's state to a random number.
1. Create a method to update the state with a new random number.
1. Create a button which binds the click event to the method described above.
1. Create a binding to display the current random number.

Since we are storing the random value in the component's state, React will automatically handle updating the document when its value changes. Therefore, we don't need to worry about this ourselves.